
1. Summarize for us the goal of this project and how machine learning is useful in trying to accomplish it. As part of your answer, give some background on the dataset and how it can be used to answer the project question. Were there any outliers in the data when you got it, and how did you handle those?  [relevant rubric items: “data exploration”, “outlier investigation”]

	The goal of this project is to use supervised machine learning to build a classifier for persons of interest in the Enron case. Persons of interest (POI) are identified as people who who were indicted, reached a settlement or plea deal with the government, or testified in exchange for prosecution immunity. The data comes from the Enron Email Dataset, which was prepared by the CALO Project/MIT and is accessible here (https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~./enron/). 

	The dataset includes approximately 0.5M emails from Enron employees, as well as a financial dataset including such values as salary, stock options, bonus, etc. There are 146 people included in the data set, 18 of whom are identified as POI.  I wrote a couple of functions in the explore_enron_data.py file to calculate basic statistics and identify any outliers for each numerical feature. After removing the totals, I defined as outliers as more than 2 standard deviations away from the mean. The code also marks which outliers are POIs. I counted how many times each person appeared as an outlier. Unsurprisingly, Ken Lay is the most frequent outlier at 8 appearances; Jeff Skilling, Mark Frevert, and John Lavorato tie for second at 5 outliers each. At first glance it appears that POIs are more likely to be outliers than non-POIs, so I may use this as a feature moving forward.
	

2. What features did you end up using in your POI identifier, and what selection process did you use to pick them? Did you have to do any scaling? Why or why not? As part of the assignment, you should attempt to engineer your own feature that does not come ready-made in the dataset -- explain what feature you tried to make, and the rationale behind it. (You do not necessarily have to use it in the final analysis, only engineer and test it.) In your feature selection step, if you used an algorithm like a decision tree, please also give the feature importances of the features that you use, and if you used an automated feature selection function like SelectKBest, please report the feature scores and reasons for your choice of parameter values.  [relevant rubric items: “create new features”, “properly scale features”, “intelligently select feature”]

	The new feature I chose to add was the number of times each person appears as an outlier in the numerical fields. To implement this, I defined an outlier as more than two standard deviations from the mean, found the outliers for each numerical feature, and added the counts as a new feature (outlier_count). I chose this as a feature because it stood out in my initial data exploration, and I wanted to see if it improve the accuracy of my classifier.


3. What algorithm did you end up using? What other one(s) did you try? How did model performance differ between algorithms?  [relevant rubric item: “pick an algorithm”]


4. What does it mean to tune the parameters of an algorithm, and what can happen if you don’t do this well?  How did you tune the parameters of your particular algorithm? (Some algorithms do not have parameters that you need to tune -- if this is the case for the one you picked, identify and briefly explain how you would have done it for the model that was not your final choice or a different model that does utilize parameter tuning, e.g. a decision tree classifier).  [relevant rubric item: “tune the algorithm”]


5. What is validation, and what’s a classic mistake you can make if you do it wrong? How did you validate your analysis?  [relevant rubric item: “validation strategy”]


6. Give at least 2 evaluation metrics and your average performance for each of them.  Explain an interpretation of your metrics that says something human-understandable about your algorithm’s performance. [relevant rubric item: “usage of evaluation metrics”]

